# Trickipedia Readme:

#### Video Demo: <https://youtu.be/xIPkBR4X56g>

#### Description:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I created this project because I noticed that there was something lacking in the skiing community that many other action sports had. That was a website serving as an encyclopedia of the sport, providing info on every trick, with detailed descriptions and video examples for all of them. The two sites that I took as inspiration were <http://skateyeg.com/bog/learn.html> and <http://www.club540.com/tricktionary>, which are for aggressive inline skating and tricking respectively. However, I thought that there was a way that these sites could be improved, and made much more fun for the user. That was to include the community. So rather than filling the page with videos that I found on the internet, I decided to use my own skiing footage to provide some examples, and leave the rest open for submissions from the community.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So, I created a submission page, where people would provide a Youtube embed code of their submissions, and some personal details. These would appear on the submissions page only available to admin, where I could look over and check all of the details, provide a difficulty ranking and description for the trick (I wanted all of the descriptions to have a similar tone, so I decided to write all of them myself), and choose whether or not to accept the submission. If I chose to accept it, it would then appear on the main trickipedia page, viewable by anyone. If I need to, I can change existing tricks using either the reviewtrick page (which is linked on each trick page) or the admin site. I think that the chance to have your trick immortalized as the first example new skiers might see would be an exciting idea for people in the community, and I plan to promote this site on skiing social media in hopes of drumming up submissions and filling out the site with examples. I credit the skier and filmer on each trick page, so if this site becomes popular, it could also serve as good promotion for people in the community. I also thought it was important to give as many people as possible a chance to get featured, so I decided that each skier could only appear as an example twice, and I would prefer to select submissions from amateurs rather than pros as much as possible. Currently, all of the videos are of myself, but I will choose two of my favourites to remain and open submissions for the rest as soon as I make this project public.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I used Django for this project, as the models you can create using it were useful for storing data related to each trick such as the video embed code and description, and made it very simple to access that data to create a page for each trick using only one HTML template. I used a modelform (created in my forms.py file) to create the submissions page, and then a form with more fields on the reviewtrick page to get some more data related to the trick, or change fields that needed to be altered. For the visual theme of the website, I decided to base it off of the theme I use on my text editor, because I'd grown to like the dark grey background and black and orange text, as well as the all-lowercase monospace font. This gave the website a distinct and clean look. My styles.css file has HTML elements on the site have their widths determined using percentage and heights determined by vh, not fixed pixel values (with some exceptions), so the site is responsive to changing viewport widths and heights and looks presentable on a mobile device. On the trickipedia page (index.html), I used for loops so that new tricks would automatically appear as they were accepted, and wrapped them in a flexbox so that they would adapt to different screen widths and appear on the site as even columns. Flex-wrap is enabled and each item has a flex-basis of 25% so that as new tricks are accepted, new rows of 4 will be created. All pages related to administration, such as the page that lists submissions and the review pages that allow the admin to delete or change entries require a login to view. There is no way on the site to create a user, so the only person that can access these pages is the admin, and there is no way for regular users to view or interact with these pages. I can also alter models using the Django admin site if I choose to. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The other files I wrote for this site are the URLs and views files. The URL site is relatively simple, designating the paths needed for the website. The only thing of note is that the reviewtrick and trick paths have variables in the URL path so that it is easy to link to the correct page for specific tricks. The views page determines what each of the pages on the site will do depending on request method. Most are relatively simple, just returning a render of a specific page, but the trickform and review views are notable as they create or modify objects using POST requests. The HTML pages for both use forms full of input elements to provide the view with the necessary text input to create or change an object, and then the view saves the object making the changes permanent. The other notable thing on the views page is the use of variables. The view for the index passes the list of accepted tricks to the HTML page which then shows them using for loops, and the same is done for the list of submissions to the review page. The trick and reviewtrick views use the integer in their URL to return the correct trick for each page and pass the object to their HTML pages. Their HTML pages are designed to use the trick object's attributes such as youtube embed code and description to create HTML elements making each trick page unique. There are also a number of cases where a string is passed to the review.html template, which is a blank page unless it has a variable passed to it. It will display whatever string is passed to it, making it reusable for several views such as success and review.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Overall, this website could be a useful resource for both skiers and coaches, as well as a fun and competitive experience for skiers making submissions to get featured. Using Django, I was able to make a website that was simple to use, and very easy to administrate from within the site itself. Jinja templates made it so that I could write a site with many pages using a much lower amount of HTML files, and writing CSS with mobile devices in mind allowed me to write a responsive site that looked good both on desktop and on phones.

