### pickyourmain readme

#### Introduction:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I wrote this web app to introduce beginners to the characters used in competitive Smash Bros Melee. Although the game is over 20 years old at this point, fan-made online play for the game and wide viewership online means that the game continues to grow, and resources like this are needed. This is not intended to be an in-depth guide to anything, but rather an overview of each character's place in competitive play and their strengths and weaknesses. Melee is a rather poorly balanced game by modern standards, so a portion of the cast is essentially useless in tournament and have been excluded from the site. The characters featured on the homepage here are those with an important (or at least theoretically valuable) role in the competitive metagame of Melee. Often, a resource like this is a Google Doc, plaintext full of information, useful but boring. To make the site more fun and engaging for users, I decided to use CSS to mimic the visual style of Melee, and style each page to resemble screens from the game.

#### Distinctness and Complexity:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This project is completely distinct from any of the other assignments in the course, both in the purpose of the site and in the focus on CSS and design. My primary goal with this project was to work on my CSS abilities, which I felt I focused less on and progressed less in than the other languages used in this course up to this point. The content of the app is also quite different, being something of a learning resource for beginners to a competitive game. The styles.css page for this project is approaching 330 lines, and includes media queries to make the website mobile responsive. In past projects I've written I've done things such as use percents or rem for size, or used flex boxes with flex wrap enabled to make sure that the website looks presentable on mobile devices, but this app is the first time I've had to write separate mobile views and utilize media queries. The reason that I decided to do this was that the layout I had in mind for the character bio page was quite square, and it would not work on a mobile screen, so I thought that coming up with two layouts was a better solution than attempting to fit a square peg in a narrow rectangular hole.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that my explanations of the styling and of each HTML page will show the complexity of the project. The homepage's changes between desktop and mobile sizes are reducing the size of the "Select Your Character" text to fit on a mobile screen, with different sizes for narrower and wider phone screens, reducing the font size of the headers, and turning on flex wrap to allow all character images to fit on the screen. The character bio page's changes are more complex, completely changing the layout of the page to better fit the orientation of a mobile screen, and including all of the info on the character to better fill out the page. The size and location of the "back" image linking to the homepage also changes size and location. However, the most difficult part of the app to write was the styling on the desktop view of the character bio page. I was mostly inspired by the Trophy Gallery of melee, which displays information about various Trophies found throughout the game. Creating visuals similar to that page required a great deal of learning about and using absolute and relative positioning of various divs. I had to position each of the divs (character render, name, bio, and buttons) manually while also ensuring that they could fit each character's information or image, as they vary in length or size. All elements are positioned relatively to the "Fighter Bios" background image, ensuring that the layout of the page does not break when viewed at different zoom levels or window sizes.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The work involved in this project also went beyond writing CSS, as I needed to create some of the assets used on the site. Both the background of the character bio page's desktop view, and the character select box shown behind the character render on that page were created by me using GIMP. I used textures and images from the game for this project, but I could not find the exact version of either of those textures to use, so I coloured, outlined, and modified different textures from the game to create images for that page. Finding the correct colours, fonts, and font settings to use on the site to mimic Melee's style was difficult, and took considerable experimentation and fiddling to get correct. In addition, writing and fact-checking the content of the site took research, including watching videos of tournament play and reading online discussion posts.

#### Files:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The static folder for this project has styles.css, character.js, and a media folder holding all images used on the site. Models.py contains one model, Char, which contains information about each character such as a description of them in competitive play, some html that shows why someone might want to play or avoid them, and a render of their model from the game. This website only has 2 pages, the index which appears as a character select screen, and the character bio page, which provides an introduction to each character. This app's urls.py page contains the two URL paths, and only the character page is notable as it uses a string in the path to determine which character will be displayed. The view for the index page only returns a render, while the view for the character page uses the string in it's URL to find which Char model to use to fill out the page, which it then passes to the character.html file. The index has a graphic on the top saying "Select Your Character", which was created by placing an absolutely positioned header with a gradient background image over another header with white text shadow. Below are several flexboxes holding images of each character wrapped in anchor tags, so that clicking on them takes you to that character's bio page. The background image is taken from Melee's character select screen. Media queries change the size of the "Select Your Character" graphic so that it fits different sizes of phone screen without becoming misaligned, and turn on flex wrap so that character images stack to better fill out a phone screen. The character bio page can be divided into two parts, the desktop and mobile view. In the desktop view, all of the information related to the character is fit into a div with a background image, representing the box that Trophies are displayed in in Melee. The box contains a render of the character, the character's name displayed as a header sitting at a jaunty angle, a short bio of the character, and below buttons reading "Bio" and "More". Both have click event listeners on them that will run a JavaScript function. Clicking "More" will hide the character's bio and replace it with a UL listing some reasons one might want to play, or to avoid the character, and below that a header listing notable players of each character. Clicking "Bio" will hide that info, and display the bio once again. The mobile view changes the layout from horizontal to vertical, and presents all of the information rather than hiding some behind a button, as to better fill out the vertical layout of a phone screen. The divs holding text are responsive and will increase or decrease in size to fit horizontal or vertically aligned mobile screens.
